arXiv:2505.11282v2 [cs.CV] 2 Jun 2025 MTevent: A Multi-Task Event Camera Dataset for 6D Pose Estimation and Moving Object Detection ∗Shrutarv Awasthi1 ∗Anas Gouda1,2 Sven Franke1 J´erˆome Rutinowski1,2 Frank Hoffmann1 Moritz Roidl1,2 1TU Dortmund 2Lamarr Institute for Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence This paper has been accepted for publication at the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) Workshops, Nashville, 2025. ©IEEE Abstract Mobile robots are reaching unprecedented speeds, with platforms like Unitree B2, and Fraunhofer O³dyn achieving maximum speeds between 5 and 10 m/s. However, effec- tively utilizing such speeds remains a challenge due to the limitations of RGB cameras, which suffer from motion blur and fail to provide real-time responsiveness. Event cam- eras, with their asynchronous operation, and low-latency sensing, offer a promising alternative for high-speed robotic perception. In this work, we introduce MTevent, a dataset designed for 6D pose estimation and moving object detec- tion in highly dynamic environments with large detection distances. Our setup consists of a stereo-event camera and an RGB camera, capturing 75 scenes, each on average 16 seconds, and featuring 16 unique objects under challenging conditions such as extreme viewing angles, varying light- ing, and occlusions. MTevent is the first dataset to com- bine high-speed motion, long-range perception, and real- world object interactions, making it a valuable resource for advancing event-based vision in robotics. To establish a baseline, we evaluate the task of 6D pose estimation us- ing NVIDIA’s FoundationPose on RGB images, achieving an Average Recall of 0.22 with ground-truth masks, high- lighting the limitations of RGB-based approaches in such dynamic settings. With MTevent, we provide a novel re- source to improve perception models and foster further re- search in high-speed robotic vision. The dataset is available for download† along with the toolkit ‡ 1. Introduction The achievable top speeds of mobile robots have signifi- cantly increased, reaching up to 10 m/s. Deploying high- speed robots in dynamic environments where humans and other moving objects are present requires rapid reaction *Equal contribution. †huggingface.co/datasets/anas-gouda/MTevent ‡github.com/shrutarv/MTevent toolkit Figure 1. Mobile robot navigation speeds are continuously in- creasing. This figure shows O³dyn [27], an open-source outdoor robot platform capable of reaching speeds of up to 10 m/s. While the locomotion hardware supports these speeds, high-speed per- ception remains a bottleneck. Event cameras enable such robots to detect moving objects while navigating at high speeds. Addi- tionally, 6D pose estimation with event cameras allows robots to execute grasps more quickly, improving overall efficiency in dy- namic environments. times and seamless obstacle avoidance. Fig. 1 illustrates the O³dyn robot manually driven at high speed, highlighting the need for perception tasks to be performed at a higher speed than what is currently achievable. Traditional RGB cam- eras, widely used in robotic perception, present a bottle- neck in these high-speed scenarios. Motion blur, caused by rapid movements and mechanical vibrations, degrades im- age quality and impairs object detection. Moreover, RGB cameras operate at a fixed frame rate, limiting their abil- ity to capture fast, transient events. These limitations are further exacerbated in poor lighting conditions or high dy- namic range environments, making it challenging to reli- ably track moving objects [5, 28]. Event cameras offer a promising alternative to traditional RGB cameras by asynchronously capturing pixel intensity Table 1. Comparison of event camera datasets captured in indoor environments. MTevent records scenes with varying degrees of freedom and features objects larger than typical household items, ranging in size from 19 × 42 × 32 cm to 80 × 120 × 14 cm. Dataset Environment Independently Moving Objects (IMO) IMO Pose Distance to Objects Ground Truth M3ED[2] Indoor + Outdoor Pedestrians, Cars ✓ Large Lidar + RTK EViMO2[1] Indoor Household Objects ✓ Small MoCAP EDAT24[3] Indoor Small Manufacturing Objects N/A Small N/A DSEC [9] Indoor + Outdoor Pedestrians, Cars ✓ Large RTK GPS + LIDAR EED [18] Indoor UA Vs ✗ N/A Manual E-Pose [11] Indoor Objects are Static ✓ Small ZED Mini Camera MTevent (ours) Indoor 16 Objects (Fig. 3) ✓ Varying MoCap changes, providing low latency and robustness to motion blur. While high-speed RGB cameras can partially mit- igate motion blur, they tend to struggle in low-light and high dynamic range environments. A common workaround is to process every nth frame from high-speed RGB cam- eras. However, this approach has two major limitations: (1) the scene can change significantly between frames, which is problematic for tasks like tracking, and (2) the model’s inference time must be extremely low to keep up with the frame rate—often leading to overly lightweight models that fail to learn meaningful representations. As a result, this strategy is not a generalizable solution. In contrast, the abil- ity of event cameras to capture fine-grained motion with minimal latency makes them especially suitable for high- speed robotics, enabling reliable perception in challenging scenarios. A critical aspect of robotic perception is 6D pose esti- mation and moving object detection. 6D pose estimation targets rigid objects, typically those with a known 3D mesh model, and is widely used for tasks like robotic manipula- tion and grasping. Moving object detection, in contrast, fo- cuses on identifying any objects in motion—whether rigid or non-rigid—by estimating their 3D bounding boxes. In the context of our work, this refers to detecting all dynamic entities in the scene, which is crucial for enabling respon- sive and robust perception in highly dynamic environments. While some event camera datasets provide ground truth for 6D pose and 3D bounding boxes of independently mov- ing objects, they are mostly limited to household items or a few specific categories, such as humans [1, 8, 14, 19]. In contrast, our dataset includes larger objects, long-range de- tection, occlusions, extreme viewing angles, varying light- ing conditions, and diverse movement speeds for both the camera and the objects. Additionally, the dataset supports multiple tasks, including 6D pose estimation of static and moving rigid objects, 2D motion segmentation, 3D bound- ing box detection of moving objects, optical flow estima- tion, and object tracking. This versatility makes the dataset well-suited for advancing dynamic scene understanding with event cameras. The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: Section 2 reviews existing datasets and related approaches. Section 3 describes the dataset collection process and an- notation methodology. Section 4 presents the evaluation re- sults and discusses performance limitations. Finally, Sec- tion 5 summarizes the conclusions and outlines directions for future research. 2. Related Work Recent years have seen a substantial increase in event cam- era datasets, particularly for automotive [9, 20, 29] and robotics applications [1, 19]. This growth has enabled the deployment of larger and more advanced deep learn- ing models, including transformers, driving significant ad- vancements in event-based perception accuracy. Automotive event camera datasets typically employ multi-sensor setups to ensure accurate depth estimation of objects. The MVSEC dataset [29] integrates stereo event cameras mounted on a car, motorbike, hexacopter, and handheld setup, fusing the data with LiDAR, IMUs, mo- tion capture, and GPS to provide ground truth pose and depth images. The 1 Megapixel Automotive Detection Dataset [21], recorded outdoors, offers 2D bounding boxes for cars, pedestrians, and two-wheelers. Similarly, the M3ED dataset [2] utilizes two Prophesee EVK4 cameras alongside LiDAR, GPS, RGB, and stereo grayscale cam- eras. It provides ground truth poses using LiDAR and sup- ports the generation of 3D instance labels for pedestrians, buildings, and cars. M3ED is designed for tasks such as op- tical flow estimation, independently moving object (IMO) segmentation, ego-motion estimation, disparity estimation, and semantic understanding. Notably, it includes indoor recordings where humans serve as IMOs, with a primary focus on ego-motion estimation and navigation. The TUM- VIE dataset provides ground truth annotations via motion capture (MoCap) for sequences recorded with handheld and head-mounted sensors [14]. It captures humans walking, running, and performing sports in diverse indoor and out- door environments under varying lighting conditions. Beyond the automotive industry, several datasets have been published for robotic applications. The EV-IMO dataset captures fast-moving objects and rapid camera mo- tion in an indoor environment, providing accurate depth and pixel-wise object masks [19]. It utilizes a DA VIS cam- era, a VICON motion capture system, and a 3D scanner for recording and ground truth annotations. The dataset includes 32 min of data with ground truth annotations at 40 FPS. EVIMO2, an extension of EVIMO, includes up- graded event and RGB cameras and features over 20 real- world objects [1]. The dataset primarily consists of small household items such as toy blocks, remote-controlled cars, checkerboards, and small drones, offering extensive data for training large CNNs and transformers. However, its focus on small objects limits its applicability to mobile robotics, where objects are typically larger, require unconventional handling, or are not manipulated by robotic arms. The E-Pose dataset provides 6D poses for 18 objects from the YCB dataset [11]. It uses an event camera and a ZED Mini camera mounted on a moving robotic arm, while the objects remain static. Leung et al. employ a setup with two DA VIS cameras and an RGB-D camera mounted on a TurtleBot, alongside a VICON motion cap- ture system for object tracking [15]. Their dataset was recorded in an indoor laboratory setting using three Turtle- Bots, which also served as independently moving objects (IMOs). Duarte and Neto published a dataset tailored for manufacturing tasks such as picking, placing, screwing, and idling [3]. Their setup keeps the DA VIS camera fixed at a specific point during recording. The THU-50 dataset fo- cuses on human action recognition, providing ground truth annotations using a motion capture system [7]. Similarly, the N-EPIC-Kitchens dataset, an extension of the EPIC- Kitchens dataset, is designed for human action recogni- tion involving kitchen objects [8]. The VECtor dataset tar- gets SLAM and captures indoor scenes using a multi-sensor setup [6]; however, it does not include moving objects. Tab. 1 provides a comparative overview of these datasets alongside ours. 6D pose estimation using event cameras remains an un- derexplored research area. Ebmer et al. use active LED markers on objects to estimate their poses [4]. Li et al. track object poses by leveraging both event and RGB data [16]. In contrast, the line-based object pose estimation and tracking framework [17] relies solely on event data for pose estima- tion. Their method is tested with a static camera positioned at a fixed distance while the object is moved. EDOPT in- troduces a real-time algorithm for 6D pose estimation using event data, evaluating its performance by moving household Figure 2. The camera system used for dataset recording, with the RGB camera at the center and the two event cameras positioned on either side. Six retroreflective markers are attached for precise motion capture. objects in front of a moving camera [10]. Existing event camera datasets for robotics, recorded in indoor environments, employ various methods to estimate the depth of independently moving objects (IMOs) and seg- ment them from the static background. However, they pri- marily feature small household or manufacturing-related objects. The MTevent dataset addresses these limitations by introducing larger objects and capturing challenging sce- narios, including long-range detection, extreme viewing an- gles, and occlusions. Additionally, our dataset features a cluttered background composed of shelves, robots, win- dows, logistics objects, and tables, further enhancing its complexity. The distance between the camera and objects is significantly greater than in comparable datasets [1, 3, 19]. While MTevent is primarily designed for robotics applica- tions, it is also valuable for other domains. 3. Data Collection and Annotation This section presents the sensor setup used to record the dataset, followed by a description of the objects and record- ing environment. Finally, we detail the recorded scenes and the annotation process. 3.1. Sensor Setup Our dataset is recorded using a stereo setup of DVXplorer event cameras (640 × 480 px) and a single IDS uEye RGB camera, forming a three-camera system. Two different RGB cameras are used across recordings: one with a resolu- tion of 2048 × 1536 px operating at 25 FPS, and another with a resolution of 1456 × 1088 px operating at 100 FPS. Only one RGB camera is used at a time, depending on the recording setup. RGB cameras operating around 25 FPS are widely used in practical applications, making them a suitable choice for a fair comparison with event cameras. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Figure 3. The MTevent dataset objects. The first row presents four industrial objects, including a Euro pallet, three different small load carrier, and a suitcase. The second and third rows feature household objects. However, as shown in Fig. 7, cameras with lower temporal resolution (25 FPS in our case) result in less accurate an- notations for RGB images, particularly in scenes with fast movements, where motion blur and frame gaps limit precise object annotation. The 100 FPS RGB camera, in contrast, provides higher temporal resolution, leading to improved annotation accuracy. The three cameras are mounted in a horizontally aligned configuration, with the event cameras positioned on either side of the RGB camera (Fig. 2) to maximize field-of-view overlap and improve extrinsic cali- bration. The baseline between the event cameras is 10.2 cm and they are hardware synchronized. The setup is mounted on a tripod with wheels. Our lab features a Vicon MoCap system, capturing at 200 FPS, for precise object tracking. Retroreflective markers attached to the camera system en- sure seamless MoCap tracking. The intrinsic and extrin- sic calibration of the three cameras is performed using the e2vid [23] and Kalibr toolboxes [24]. 3.2. Dataset Subjects Our dataset focuses on objects larger than the ones from the current available datasets, including various-sized load carriers, a Euro pallet, plastic and wooden crates, and com- mon household storage items. To enhance diversity, we se- lected objects of different shapes and sizes. Aside from the storage containers and Euro pallet, all other objects were sourced from IKEA, ensuring their availability across mul- tiple countries. We also confirmed that these IKEA objects will remain in production until at least the end of 2026. In total, we used 16 distinct objects, each equipped with MoCap markers for precise tracking. Fig. 3 provides an overview of all objects included in the dataset. These are the same objects used in the MR6D dataset. For each object, we provide high-quality 3D mesh mod- els. The Euro pallet is represented by a manually designed CAD model, while the other objects were reconstructed us- ing BundleSDF [25]. These object meshes can also be used to generate synthetic data. Each scene features a human participant performing tasks such as carrying, loading, or unloading objects. The participant wears retroreflective markers on their gloves, headband, T-shirt, and shoes. Some scenes also include a manually operated forklift, similarly equipped with mark- ers. However, 3D models for the human and forklift are not provided, as they are only partially rigid. 3.3. Recording Environment We collected the dataset in 2 research hall both are hangar buildings. The recording arena of both building are 22 × 10 m² and 30 × 15 m². Objects are precisely tracked at 200 Hz using more than 50 VICON MoCap cameras, achieving millimeter-level accuracy. The MoCap system provides ground truth for highly accurate object positions in the Mo- Cap (world) coordinate frame. Fig. 4 illustrates the transformations between the VI- CON world frame and the geometric center of the ob- X Y Z cam_MoCap TWorld cam_optical Tcam_MoCap obj_MoCap Tcam_optical cam _optical cam_MoCap obj_geometry Tobj_MoCap obj_MoCapobj_geometry World Figure 4. Transformations in our data collection environment are defined with the motion capture system’s origin frame as the world frame. Eye-in-hand calibration aligns the tracked camera system with the RGB camera’s optical frame, while object geometry cen- ter calibration aligns the object’s tracked center with its 3D mesh model center, eliminating alignment errors and ensuring accurate annotations. ject’s mesh (objgeometry frame). Since the MoCap system tracks a reference frame differently from the RGB camera’s optical frame and the object’s mesh center, two calibration steps are required: • Eye-in-hand calibration: Computes the transformation between the MoCap-tracked camera system frame and the optical frame of the RGB camera. • Object calibration: Aligns the MoCap-tracked object frame with its mesh geometric center. This is achieved by capturing multiple object frames, manually aligning poses using the BOP [12] manual annotation tool, record- ing offsets, and computing calibration values for each ob- ject. During dataset recording, the camera system is moved to keep objects within the event camera’s field of view. All moving objects in the recording area, including humans and forklifts, are tracked using the MoCap system. 3.4. Recorded Scenarios We recorded 75 scenes in total, specifically designed to cap- ture a range of challenging scenarios, including—with mi- nor variations—the following: • A subject loading one or multiple objects from a table onto a forklift, then driving the forklift to a new location and unloading the objects. • A subject picking up one or multiple objects and carrying them to a designated location. • A subject running while carrying an object. • A subject pushing an object across the floor. • A subject swinging an object while carrying it. The recorded scenes often feature objects that are par- tially or fully occluded by a human, a forklift, or other ob- jects. In some cases, objects even move out of the camera’s field of view. To enhance the dataset’s robustness and real- ism, we introduced challenging lighting conditions, includ- ing low-light environments and sudden exposure to bright ambient light, mimicking real-world scenarios. During data collection, we introduced various degrees of freedom to enhance data diversity and robustness: • The human subject moves at different speeds, from walk- ing to running. • The camera height varies between 70 cm and 150 cm. • The camera system’s yaw, pitch, and roll are adjusted dur- ing recording. • The camera tripod is moved manually at different speeds. • Lighting conditions are varied by opening or closing the large roll-up door and windows to adjust natural light, and by using adjustable artificial lighting. A lux meter measures brightness levels before each recording, rang- ing from 37 lx to 980 lx. • In some scenes, light intensity is dynamically varied dur- ing recording, transitioning between low and high bright- ness to simulate real-world conditions. During recording, we introduce scenarios where the camera system undergoes abrupt movements, including fast horizontal sweeps, rapid roll, pitch, and yaw changes, as well as jerky motions. 3.5. Dataset Annotation Process Data from the RGB camera, event cameras, and MoCap sys- tem – including object and camera positions – are recorded as ROS bag files. Depending on the recording configura- tion, either the 25 FPS or the 100 FPS RGB camera is used. Object 6D poses, initially available in the MoCap coordi- nate frame, are first transformed into the coordinate frame of the three-camera system and then further mapped to the optical frames of each of the three individual cameras. For the 16 rigid objects, segmentation masks are derived from projected 3D meshes. In contrast, segmentation masks for the human and forklift are computed using SegmentAny- thing2 [22]. Their 3D bounding boxes are determined from individual marker positions tracked by the MoCap system. Fig. 5, 6 illustrate the annotations, including 6D pose an- notations for rigid objects and 3D bounding boxes for non- rigid objects. Since eye-in-hand calibration is performed using the RGB camera, all annotations for the three cameras are gen- erated at the RGB camera’s recording rate. At 25 FPS with an exposure time of 25 ms, the RGB camera introduces mo- tion blur. During jerky movements, objects can shift sig- nificantly within the 25 ms window, leading to faulty an- notations in RGB frames. However, event camera annota- Figure 5. The figure displays the 6D pose annotations for two objects from our dataset of 16. Event images are generated by accumulating events over a 10 ms period. Figure 6. The figure illustrates 3D bounding box annotations for non-rigid moving objects in both RGB and event camera views. Our dataset provides annotations for all moving objects in the scene. Event images are generated by accumulating events over a 10 ms period. tions remain accurate. This is evident in Fig. 7, where the RGB annotations lag behind the actual object position. As noted in Section 3.1, comparing event cameras to a 25 FPS RGB camera provides a fairer evaluation, as 25 FPS RGB cameras are more commonly used. Additionally, we pro- vide scenes recorded with a 100 FPS RGB camera, offering higher-quality annotations for the RGB data. Fig. 8 and Fig. 9 present key dataset statistics, high- lighting its diversity and relevance for robotic applications. As shown in Fig. 8, the dataset includes objects of various sizes, ranging from 16 × 19 × 42 cm to 80 × 120 × 144 cm, spanning small to large objects. The distance histogram in- dicates that most objects are positioned between 2 m to 7 m from the camera. To capture dynamic scenes, we manually move the cam- era in a horizontal sweeping motion, introducing both trans- lational and rotational velocity components. The trans- lational velocity reaches up to 2 m/s. Fig. 9 illustrates these motion dynamics, depicting the Euclidean norm of the translational velocity and the absolute angular velocity. Our dataset consists of 75 scenes, including 25 recorded with the 25 FPS RGB camera and 50 with the 100 FPS RGB camera, with an average duration of 16 s per scene. For each scene, we provide camera intrinsic and extrinsic ma- trices, along with the tracking data for all three cameras in the world frame. Additionally, we include 6D pose annota- tions for the 16 rigid objects and 3D bounding boxes for all moving objects in the scene. 4. Evaluation There are no well-established methods for 6D pose estima- tion using event cameras, nor for 3D bounding box detec- tion of moving objects – particularly in scenarios involv- ing long-range objects and complex scenes like those in our dataset. Therefore, we evaluate our dataset using NVIDIA FoundationPose [26] on the RGB data only, as it is a well- Figure 7. The figure shows 3D bounding box annotations that appear inaccurate in the RGB image due to jerky motion or sudden camera movements. We provide RGB images with improved annotations using a 100 FPS RGB camera. Event images are generated by accumu- lating events over a 10 ms period. (a) (b) (c) Figure 8. Histograms of object distances from the camera (a), translational velocity (b), and rotational velocity (c). Figure 9. The plot presents object dimensions (l, b, h), showing the minimum, median, and maximum values for each object. established approach for 6D pose estimation of unseen ob- jects. FoundationPose is trained on synthetic data encom- passing a wide variety of object categories, enabling it to generalize to novel objects not seen during training. FoundationPose estimates the 6D pose but requires a 2D segmentation mask as input. In our case, we provide ground-truth 2D masks. Additionally, as FoundationPose relies on depth information, we generate synthetic depth images based on object data. These synthetic depth images enable the model to estimate the initial object distance by averaging depth values. For evaluation, we adopt the BOP metrics [13], which are the most widely used benchmarks for 6D pose estimation. We conducted the evaluation using only 25 FPS data, as lower FPS cameras, around 25 FPS, are widely used in var- ious applications. The 100 FPS annotations were included solely to improve RGB data quality and provide additional annotations for event data. This ensures a fair comparison between event-based and RGB-based approaches. Tab. 2 presents the evaluation results with NVIDIA FoundationPose, yielding an Average Recall (AR) of 0.2207. This performance is relatively lower than Foun- dationPose results on similar datasets, likely due to motion blur from fast object movement and the complexity of the background. Qualitative visualizations of the predictions are shown in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11. 5. Conclusion In this work, we introduced MTevent, a dataset designed to advance event-based perception in dynamic environments. It addresses key challenges such as occlusions, varying lighting, extreme viewing angles, and long detection dis- tances, providing a comprehensive benchmark for event- based vision across multiple tasks—including 6D pose es- Figure 10. The figure demonstrates strong evaluation results with FoundationPose. It also highlights the diverse degrees of freedom present in the dataset. For example, the dataset includes variations in camera system height and angle, changing lighting conditions, and different human subjects. Additionally, glare from an open door adds another layer of complexity to the scene. Figure 11. The figure shows suboptimal evaluations with FoundationPose, where the images appear blurry due to fast motion. Additionally, the figure highlights the various degrees of freedom present in the dataset. Table 2. 6D pose estimation results on the MTevent dataset, using a tolerance of 10 cm. VSD: Visible Surface Discrepancy, MSSD: Maximum Symmetry-Aware Surface Distance, MSPD: Maximum Symmetry-Aware Projection Distance. GT-Masks + FoundationPose AR AR VSD ARMSSD ARMSPD 0.2207 0.1874 0.1716 0.3031 timation of static and moving rigid objects, 2D motion seg- mentation, 3D bounding box detection, optical flow estima- tion, and object tracking. With 75 scenes averaging 16 sec- onds each, it enables robust evaluation of perception mod- els under diverse conditions. Our evaluation using NVIDIA FoundationPose showed that RGB-based methods struggle in the highly dynamic, fast-moving scenarios captured in MTevent, highlighting the potential of event-based data. A limitation of our dataset is the speed of the moving camera system, which reaches only 2 m/s—below the operational speeds of modern mobile robots. Future work will focus on developing models that more effectively leverage event data for object tracking, motion estimation, and 6D pose estimation in rapidly changing en- vironments. References [1] Levi Burner, Anton Mitrokhin, Cornelia Ferm ¨uller, and Yiannis Aloimonos. Evimo2: An event camera dataset for motion segmentation, optical flow, structure from motion, and visual inertial odometry in indoor scenes with monoc- ular or stereo algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.03467, 2022. 2, 3 [2] Kenneth Chaney, Fernando Cladera, Ziyun Wang, Anthony Bisulco, M Ani Hsieh, Christopher Korpela, Vijay Kumar, Camillo J Taylor, and Kostas Daniilidis. M3ed: Multi-robot, multi-sensor, multi-environment event dataset. In Proceed- ings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 4016–4023, 2023. 2 [3] Laura Duarte and Pedro Neto. Event-based dataset for the detection and classification of manufacturing assembly tasks. Data in Brief, 54:110340, 2024. 2, 3 [4] Gerald Ebmer, Adam Loch, Minh Nhat Vu, Roberto Mecca, Germain Haessig, Christian Hartl-Nesic, Markus Vincze, and Andreas Kugi. Real-time 6-dof pose estimation by an event-based camera using active led markers. In Proceed- ings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, pages 8137–8146, 2024. 3 [5] Guillermo Gallego, Tobi Delbr ¨uck, Garrick Orchard, Chiara Bartolozzi, Brian Taba, Andrea Censi, Stefan Leutenegger, Andrew J Davison, J ¨org Conradt, Kostas Daniilidis, et al. Event-based vision: A survey. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 44(1):154–180, 2020. 1 [6] Ling Gao, Yuxuan Liang, Jiaqi Yang, Shaoxun Wu, Chenyu Wang, Jiaben Chen, and Laurent Kneip. Vector: A versa- tile event-centric benchmark for multi-sensor slam. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7(3):8217–8224, 2022. 3 [7] Yue Gao, Jiaxuan Lu, Siqi Li, Yipeng Li, and Shaoyi Du. Hypergraph-based multi-view action recognition using event cameras. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Ma- chine Intelligence, 46(10):6610–6622, 2024. 3 [8] Yue Gao, Jiaxuan Lu, Siqi Li, Yipeng Li, and Shaoyi Du. Hypergraph-based multi-view action recognition using event cameras. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Ma- chine Intelligence, 2024. 2, 3 [9] Mathias Gehrig, Willem Aarents, Daniel Gehrig, and Davide Scaramuzza. Dsec: A stereo event camera dataset for driv- ing scenarios. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 6(3): 4947–4954, 2021. 2 [10] Arren Glover, Luna Gava, Zhichao Li, and Chiara Bar- tolozzi. Edopt: Event-camera 6-dof dynamic object pose tracking. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , pages 18200–18206. IEEE, 2024. 3 [11] Oussama Abdul Hay, Xiaoqian Huang, Abdulla Ayyad, Es- lam Sherif, Randa Almadhoun, Yusra Abdulrahman, Lak- mal Seneviratne, Abdulqader Abusafieh, and Yahya Zweiri. E-pose: A large scale event camera dataset for object pose estimation. Scientific Data, 12(1):245, 2025. 2, 3 [12] Tom ´aˇs Hodaˇn, Frank Michel, Eric Brachmann, Wadim Kehl, Anders Glent Buch, Dirk Kraft, Bertram Drost, Joel Vidal, Stephan Ihrke, Xenophon Zabulis, Caner Sahin, Fabian Man- hardt, Federico Tombari, Tae-Kyun Kim, Ji ˇr´ı Matas, and Carsten Rother. BOP: Benchmark for 6D object pose esti- mation. European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2018. 5 [13] Tom ´aˇs Hoda ˇn, Martin Sundermeyer, Bertram Drost, Yann Labb´e, Eric Brachmann, Frank Michel, Carsten Rother, and Jiˇr´ı Matas. BOP challenge 2020 on 6D object localization. European Conference on Computer Vision Workshops (EC- CVW), 2020. 7 [14] Simon Klenk, Jason Chui, Nikolaus Demmel, and Daniel Cremers. Tum-vie: The tum stereo visual-inertial event dataset. In 2021 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) , pages 8601–8608. IEEE, 2021. 2, 3 [15] Sarah Leung, E Jared Shamwell, Christopher Maxey, and William D Nothwang. Toward a large-scale multimodal event-based dataset for neuromorphic deep learning applica- tions. In Micro-and Nanotechnology Sensors, Systems, and Applications X, pages 279–288. SPIE, 2018. 3 [16] Zhichao Li, Nicola A Piga, Franco Di Pietro, Massimil- iano Iacono, Arren Glover, Lorenzo Natale, and Chiara Bar- tolozzi. Hybrid object tracking with events and frames. In 2023 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 9057–9064. IEEE, 2023. 3 [17] Zibin Liu, Banglei Guan, Yang Shang, Qifeng Yu, and Lau- rent Kneip. Line-based 6-dof object pose estimation and tracking with an event camera. IEEE Transactions on Im- age Processing, 2024. 3 [18] Anton Mitrokhin, Cornelia Ferm ¨uller, Chethan Paramesh- wara, and Yiannis Aloimonos. Event-based moving object detection and tracking. In2018 IEEE/RSJ International Con- ference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 1–9, 2018. 2 [19] Anton Mitrokhin, Chengxi Ye, Cornelia Ferm ¨uller, Yian- nis Aloimonos, and Tobi Delbruck. Ev-imo: Motion seg- mentation dataset and learning pipeline for event cameras. In 2019 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 6105–6112, 2019. 2, 3 [20] Giuseppe Mollica, Simone Felicioni, Marco Legittimo, Leonardo Meli, Gabriele Costante, and Paolo Valigi. Ma- vied: A multisensor automotive visual inertial event dataset. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 25 (1):214–224, 2023. 2 [21] Etienne Perot, Pierre De Tournemire, Davide Nitti, Jonathan Masci, and Amos Sironi. Learning to detect objects with a 1 megapixel event camera. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:16639–16652, 2020. 2 [22] Nikhila Ravi, Valentin Gabeur, Yuan-Ting Hu, Ronghang Hu, Chaitanya Ryali, Tengyu Ma, Haitham Khedr, Roman R¨adle, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Eric Mintun, Junt- ing Pan, Kalyan Vasudev Alwala, Nicolas Carion, Chao- Yuan Wu, Ross Girshick, Piotr Doll´ar, and Christoph Feicht- enhofer. Sam 2: Segment anything in images and videos. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.00714, 2024. 5 [23] Henri Rebecq, Ren ´e Ranftl, Vladlen Koltun, and Davide Scaramuzza. Events-to-video: Bringing modern computer vision to event cameras. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog. (CVPR), 2019. 4 [24] Joern Rehder, Janosch Nikolic, Thomas Schneider, Timo Hinzmann, and Roland Siegwart. Extending kalibr: Cali- brating the extrinsics of multiple imus and of individual axes. In 2016 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Au- tomation (ICRA), pages 4304–4311. IEEE, 2016. 4 [25] Bowen Wen, Jonathan Tremblay, Valts Blukis, Stephen Tyree, Thomas M ¨uller, Alex Evans, Dieter Fox, Jan Kautz, and Stan Birchfield. BundleSDF: Neural 6-DoF tracking and 3D reconstruction of unknown objects. In CVPR, 2023. 4 [26] Bowen Wen, Wei Yang, Jan Kautz, and Stan Birchfield. FoundationPose: Unified 6d pose estimation and tracking of novel objects. In CVPR, 2024. 6 [27] Marvin Wiedemann, Ossama Ahmed, Anna Dieckh ¨ofer, Re- nato Gasoto, and S ¨oren Kerner. Simulation modeling of highly dynamic omnidirectional mobile robots based on real-world data. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) , pages 16923–16929, 2024. 1 [28] Tianyi Xiong, Jiayi Wu, Botao He, Cornelia Fermuller, Yian- nis Aloimonos, Heng Huang, and Christopher A Metzler. Event3dgs: Event-based 3d gaussian splatting for high-speed robot egomotion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.02972, 2024. 1 [29] Alex Zihao Zhu, Dinesh Thakur, Tolga ¨Ozaslan, Bernd Pfrommer, Vijay Kumar, and Kostas Daniilidis. The multi- vehicle stereo event camera dataset: An event camera dataset for 3d perception. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 3 (3):2032–2039, 2018. 2